# 1. Why

Why? It’s the question I’ve been obsessed with for about as long as I remember. (Journey through religion to life extension to evolutionary theory).

The most common version of this question that most people as is “Why are we here?”. Historically no one has come even remotely close to answering this question in any logical manner to which convinces us. For reasons that will be explained in this book, for the broader part of human history religion has dominated the answer to this question. The advent of religion in the context of the first humans follows logically from the evolution of, well, everything. We humans are just the most advanced version of evolution; remember that when we speak of evolution, we are speaking of the evolution of one thing. It is the growth of one organism all the way through, like a web all expanding from one point [visual]. Im getting ahead of myself here, the argument will be further broken down in the chapter on Religion.

In a broader historical sense, religion as a whole continues to be on the decline. What no one seems to be talking about is the broader implications of having an increasingly growing mass of the population without believing in an answer to the question of “Why are we here?”. It’s an odd idea to explore, the idea that a large group of people who don’t believe in the answer to a question is an issue. But think about it this way, if you were to go around and there was a group of people who [analogy here], you would think they were nuts. So now you can see why a group of people who simply don’t have the answer to a question (that the rest of us never really thought about until now) would be an interesting phenomenon. And because it was interesting, it began to grow. And this is why religion declines, because there is an increasingly growing population of people who ask the question of “Why?” and are met with an unsatisfying answer. Because what we are really looking at is the collective growth of a an idea, the idea of logic. We begin to understand that when the rain comes, the grass grows. When the sun shines, we feel warm. We understand this relationship between cause and effect. And it expands, expanding to the point of the biggest question of them all “Why are we here”? 

But the point I will make in this book is the more simple question of just “Why?” Will, in the end, answer the more specific question of “Why are we here?”, in the same logical manner that brought you to this book in the first place. 
