# Appendix A: My Journey (Interview Style)

My fascination with immortality began quite young. I remember as a kid reading a book called “Ways to Live Forever” which was this somewhat tragic story of a kid who was terminally ill with leukemia, and wanted to check off his bucket list before he died. I remember it had a profound impact on me, and I think the reason was that it was around this same time that I was questioning and receiving unsatisfactory answers from religion. I think this is when my subliminal coping with death really began, and I think my life from then on has really been an extension of this. 

For university I decided to pursue engineering with the intention of specializing in nanotechnology. Nanotechnology seemed to me to be the key to unlocking try biological immortality - if we could physically alter cells to never age then could we actually live forever? Sort of like if you diligently maintain a car, replacing all the necessary parts, could you get it to run forever? It seemed as worth a pursuit as any. I remember my thinking at the time was not so much a determination to live forever, but a somewhat reserved attitude that it was the only thing worth trying for. I remember thinking that if you gave any other animal the option to live forever, they would surely take it, so we might as well try and do the same thing. 

“Man is the only being that knows death; all others become old, but with a consciousness wholly limited to the moment which must seem to them eternal”
- Oswald Spengler 

I didn’t and still do not believe that life has any meaning or that anything happens after you die, so it doesn’t actually matter if you succeed at living forever or not, but you might as well try because life is, at bare minimum, interesting. I would rather continue to experience then not, simply because I find it all rather interesting. Now if and when I surely fail, that’s okay too, even if it’s a sudden event that takes me at a tragically young age - because in the end it doesn’t matter. It doesn’t matter if I am alive or dead or if humans survive or go extinct. And so I thought “hey, might as well try to live forever, and if I fail well thats fine too”.

During my university years I drifted from this idea, I think mostly due to the extreme technical complexities of nanotechnology for which understanding seemed daunting. I discovered though various class and extracurricular projects that I could help people, and I think I transitioned my desire to live on biologically to a desire to live on through the act of helping others. I think that I was also greatly overwhelmed by university as a whole and finding my place in the world. I look back on those years as yes, a deviation from my fundamental passion, but a time in which I truly understood how the world worked. Above anything else, a degree in engineering gave me such confidence in my ability to understand the world. What engineering teaches you, over and over, is the ability to understand complexity. It is this confidence that it take with me on the road back to my fundamental passion.

However my interest now is not in solely biological immortality as it once was, but in all the facets of immortality. In the last year or so of university I came across a book called The Denial of Death which has since had a profound impact on me…. (More to add here)

In the spring of 2023 I watched a documentary called “The Great Hack” which detailed how a data analytics firm used social science survey data to create personas for individual voters and expose them to targeted advertisements. While I have little interest in politics, what it seemed to me that they had developed was in some ways, a computational representation of a human consciousness. Sure, it was rudimentary, but it was nevertheless some level of representation. Combine that with my belief in terror management theory, and I believed that somewhere deep within that data is the ability to distill out the fundamental human motivation, the fear of death. If all personality is the extension of this motivation combined with ones upbringing (ie nurture), then it should be possible to distill out this motivation. If so, then you can apply this motivation to machine systems, and the “immortal replicator” can continue as it always has. There is no discussion about better or worse in this context, it just is. 
