# Appendix A: My Journey 

I was in primary school at around the age when the bulk of my memories begin to appear. My parents, while not themselves practicing Christians, had enrolled me in to a Christian school. It was a private school not far from our home which had a good reputation for education. I believe the Christian element of this school was secondary to its reputation for education, but it pleased the set of Catholic grandparents on both sides so I’m sure it wasn’t a deterrent. 

I remember my first experiments with religion at around this age. On many occasions while bored in class, I would stare at a pencil on my desk and think to myself “If your real God, make this pencil fall off my desk”. It never happened. My thinking was “if its so important that I believe and follow you, then why cant you do such a trivial display of your might”. The whole idea of unwavering belief without evidence never made sense to me and was so counter to the ways of logic and inference that I was being taught in math and science classes. I remember kneeling at my bedside, in proper prayer form, praying for God to just revel himself in some way so that I can buy in wholeheartedly; it never came. 

I wasn’t the only kid to begin questioning things, in fact I would say only 20% of the kids actually seemed to believe. My friends and I began to rebel in all the ways we could find, signing alternative (often derogatory) lyrics to the worship songs in chapel, and highlighting our favourite messed up Bible verses. As a continuation of this “counter-culture” movement, I began to take an interest in evolutionary theory which I quickly found had more answers then the Christian theories that were being presented to me. I remember coming across the Darwin fish, a parody of the Christian fish (that apparently early Christians would draw in the sand with their feet to subtly broadcast their faith to help meet other Christians). The Darwin fish had feet, a subtle nod to evolutionary theory that opposed Christian views. I remember purchasing a Darwin fish sticker off eBay and proudly displaying it on my laptop as a symbol of rebellion. 

Moving into the later years of primary school and into high school, I had to start thinking about what I was hoping to do with my life. Without the ability to lean on the religious answer as to what constitutes a good life, I began to look deeper. Like most kids, I enjoyed sports and such, but knew I was never good enough to pursue that (albeit it sure was the cool thing to pursue at that age). My issue with every profession I pondered was “okay but why?”.
“Be a doctor to help people”
“Why does it matter if I help people?” 
“Well because helping people is a good thing.”
“Why is it a good thing?”
“Well because it aleviates pain for people”
“Why does it matter if I help alleviate pain?”
(To be continued)

Without a moral compass, I looked to other mammals for answers. Amongst other actions, the thing that caught my eye most about mamals was that they always sought to avoid death. Yes, there are cases when one gets old it will wander off to die so as to not hinder the group, but non-elderly animals will never opt to die. There is no suicide amongst the animal kingdom. While they can’t verbally express it, I believed that given the choice, all other mammals would choose to live as long as they could. This seemed to me to be the most fundamental answer to the question of “what should I do with my life?”. The answer: just try to live as long as you can. Not necessarily do anything particular with your time, but just follow your mammalian desire to live as long as possible. If you fail, well it doesn’t really make a difference, but you might as well try because really what matters at all? Even if your life is filled with pain and suffering, at least its something compared to the nothingness of death. 

I remember I came across a book called “Ways to Live Forever” by Sally Nicholas and even before I bang on this journey of reflection, I remember it seemed to hold a special place in my heart. The book is about a young boy who has leukemia and, with the help of his friends and family, goes on a quest to complete his bucket list before he dies. Thinking back on it now, its a terribly sad book to read as a kid, and I often wonder if it served as one of those defining moments in ones childhood that almost single-handedly shapes one future; like when you hear about sports players who watch their idol play and claim it was at that moment they they decided they were going to become a professional athlete. Except in my case, it was at that moment that I decided I wanted to live forever. 

I remember this desire manifesting in my high school years, although I wish I had done more journaling so that I could have some insight into how deeply these thoughts occupied my mind as I wonder if it was the same extent to which it does now. Nevertheless it was significant enough that I began to explore the science and communities around life extension. I remember one idea that I would often fall back on: “If you gave any other animal the choice to continue living (in an optimal state) it would take it, and so why shouldn’t I try the same”. The idea being that you might as well try and live as long as possible because experiencing something is better then experiencing nothing, and if you fail, then oh well, because it didn’t really matter anyway. You could choose not to try, and that’s fine too, because that also doesn’t matter (nothing matters remember). I remember one of the leading ideas on life extension was using nanotechnology to maintain optimal cellular operations and prevent the shortening of telomeres (bits of ones DNA that shorten as one ages). I remember suffering through a very academic book called ‘Engines of Creation” (of which I almost certainly understood nothing) by the leading researched in the field, Eric Drexler. I remember following another leading researcher in the field, Aubrey De Grey on LinkedIn. It was this interest that eventually caused me to end up pursuing engineering at UBC out of interest in their nanotechnology specialization offered through the Electrical Engineering faculty. 

My pursuits somewhat pivoted in university as I remember discovering that this nanotechnology specialization was no longer offered and while there was still some courses available through the Electrical Engineering faculty, I began to become more focused on simply passing my courses and less focused on my broader overall life goals. I traded the macro for the micro. In this same first year I remember winning a class competition for developing a very rudimentary assistive device and looking back, I latched onto that success and began to shape my identity around it. I had been struggling academically and winning this little competition with a design that I made and a video which I wrote, filmed, and edited was the first time where I had came out on top compared to the rest of my classmates. It was obviously something I was good at, and looking back on it now I can see how it was a peak into what I am now more confident are my strengths (a good eye for design/functionality and an ability to communicate/story-tell). I believe it was at this time where nanotechnology seemed so complicated and difficult, and physical medical devices became evident as something I was seemingly good at, that a major mental switch happened in my mind. I abandoned my pursuit of nanotechnology and began this pursuit of assistive devices under a new guise of wanting to help people. I remember watching a Ted Talk around that time where the speaker posed the question: “What is the one thing you want to do before you die?”. I remember my answer came to me so quickly and I felt so sure of it: “I want to save a life”. I rode this new vision for the next 4 years of my university career, joining and restructuring a student team to focus on developing assistive devices similar to the one I built in that first year. It became my identity, I was the “biomed assistive device guy”. In the summer before and during my fourth year I was working at a research center on a medical device and I fairly quickly got exposed to the world of research and medical device development, and began to realize that it moved a bit too slow for my liking. This is around when the Covid-19 pandemic hit, which I remember thinking was somewhat of a blessing as it allowed me to exit from this world of biomed without tarnishing any relationships. What followed were probably the most unsettled few years of my life, as the real world began to settle in. Job hunting in my last semester of school was really just about getting a job, any job really. I was a fresh graduate in the middle of a global pandemic, couldn’t really get away with being picky. I got a job with Deloitte in Cyber Risk Advisory, something which I had next to no passion for, and looking back on it I’m not sure how much I really thought about the big life goal, once again trading the macro for the micro. I had a summer off, then moved cities, started the new job, and about as quickly it began to dawn on me how miserable I would be doing this for the rest of my life, my three year relationship ended and so all focus shifted away from life goal searching and towards emotional damage control. After recovering from that I began back to the “big life goal” pursuit. 

It was during this time where I rekindled my relationship with my old nihilistic “nothing matters” worldview. Ive rekindled my interest in living forever, except this time its not physical, its conceptual…. 
